---
layout: page 
title: "Student Object Serializer Documentation" 
peramlink: /MCDataVis/SOS/
---

 ## Student Object Serializer Documentation 

The section of the documentation outlines the student class, used to parse and sort student data into more meaningful information. This section also outlines the serialization and deserialization functions used to pass data and convert data, allowing us to perform data analysis on students.  

## Class Documentation 

##### `class Stundet` 

**Attributes:** 

- `name: str`, the students name. 
- `completion_dates: list`, a list of a lesson start dates, stored as `datetime` objects.   
- `lesson_completion_rates: list`, the total time spent at a lesson for all lessons the student has completed, stored as `datetime` objects.
- `max_rank: str`, the current max rank of the student. 
- `average_completion_per_rank: list`, the average time spent per lesson per rank. 
- `rank_completion_dates: list`, the completion date for each rank the student has achieved.  
- `time_spent_per_rank: list`, the time the student has spent at each rank. 

**Parameters:** 

- `dates: list`,  a list of a lesson start dates, stored as `datetime` objects.   from this list all attributes (besides the name) can be calculated / determined , with the functions outlined in the next section.   
- `student_name: str`, the name of the student. 



## Functions

##### `get_max_rank(number_of_lessons: int)` returns  `str`

Returns the rank, given the number of courses. 

**Parameters:**    

  - `number_of_lessons: int`,  an `int` representing the total number of lessons a student has completed.   

**Example:** 

```python
print(get_max_rank(13)) 
>>> 'watchmen'
```

  

##### `calculate_rates(datetime_list: list)` returns  `list` 

Returns a collection of completion times for lessons. Since data is recorded at lessons start and not lesson end, to get a lesson completion time we take the difference of `current_lesson_start - prev_lesson_start` .   

**Parameters:**    

  - `datetime_list: list`, a collection of `datetime` objects, that store the start date of a lesson in the `mm\dd\yy` format.  



##### `convert_to_datetime(date_data: list)` returns  `list`  

Returns a list of `datetime` objects. The function iterates through a list of dates stored as strings in the format of `mm\dd\yy`, and converts them to datetime objects.  This function converts data pulled from the web scrapped into objects we can more easily manipulate . 

**Parameters:**    

  - `date_data: list`, a list of dates in string format.  

    

##### `calculate_times_and_dates_per_rank(lessons: list, lesson_dates: list)` returns  `list, list`  

Returns two lists, `time_per_rank` and `date_per_rank` . `Time_per_rank` , is a list containing the total time spent at each rank, and `date_per_rank` contains the start dates of each rank for a given student. 

**Parameters:**    

  - `lessons`, a list of `datetime` objects storing the total time in days spent on a single lesson. 

  - `lesson_dates`,  a list of lesson start dates.  

    

##### `calculate_average_rate_per_rank(lessons: list)` returns  `list`  

Sums up and averages all the lessons contained within a rank, adds that value to a list, the function repeats this process for the completed/active ranks of a student. The function returns a list containing the average completion time of a lesson for given ranks.    

**Parameters:**    

  - `lessons: list`,  a list of `datetime` objects storing the total time in days spent on a single lesson. 

##### `create_student_object_dict(student_dates_dict: dict)` returns  `dict`

Iterates through a dictionary, using it's keys and values to construct student objects. The function returns these objects in a dictionary, mapping each object to the students name.   

**Parameters:**    

  - `student_dates_dict` , is a dictionary generated by the web scrapper, where `{key: str, value: list}`.  Keys are student names, and values are lists containing start dates for every lesson a student has started.  

    

##### `IO_JSON(file_name: str, *student_data: dict):` returns  `dict` 

Reads in JSON data from a path, provided by `file_name` , deserializes and returns the data as a dictionary. If the optional argument is used, then the function writes to the file path, serializing the data passed in from the parameter.  

**Parameters:**    

  - `file_name:str`, a path to file or file location.    

**Optional arguments:**  

 - `student_data`, if used, then the function writes to that path and serializes the student data.  



##### `object_to_dict_map(student_object: object):` returns  `str, dict` 

Returns a string with the `student_object.name` member, and a mixed dictionary containing string keys that map to the appropriate value type.  

The default JSON serialization library in python doesn't not support custom object serialization. Therefore we have a mapping between our object an a valid serializable key, value pair. This enables to serialize and deserialize the custom student object type successfully.  

**Parameters:**    

  - `student_object: object` , an instance of the student class, to be mapped to a dictionary for serialization.   

**Example:**    

``` python
print(object_to_dict_map(some_student_object)[1])
#Formatted dict output would be 
'''
        "Adam Benamor": {
            "name": "Adam Benamor",
            "dates": [
                "09/21/19",
                "10/26/19",
                "11/16/19",
                "02/08/20",
                "03/07/20"
            ],
            "lessons": [
                35,
                21,
                84,
                28
            ],
            "rank": "recruit",
            "average completion rate": [
                46.666666666666664
            ],
            "time spent per rank": [
                140
            ],
            "rank completion dates": [
                "02/08/20"
            ]
        }
'''
```



##### `dict_entry_to_object_map(student_dict: dict, key: str )` returns  `object`  

Constructs and returns a student object from a deserialized dictionary.  

**Parameters:**    

  - `student_dict: dict` , a dictionary containing student data, unformatted dates or serialized objects.  

  - `key: srt`, a key or student name to generate a student object for. 

    

##### `to_student_object_dict(json_dict: dict)` returns  `dict` 

Iterates through deserialized student data, and returns a dictionary of student objects, with string keys.  

**Parameters:**    

  - `json_dict: dict`, a dictionary containing student lesson start data.  

## Documentation Links

- [Student Data Visualization Tools](https://mjsmith95.github.io/MCDataVis/SDVT) 
- [Understanding the Data, Metrics, and Analysis Procedures](https://mjsmith95.github.io/MCDataVis/MCDV) 
- [Back to main page](https://mjsmith95.github.io/MCDataVis)   